00:01
Okay. So, can I have your consent for the following questions? Yes.  Okay. So, I have your information about your name and your age?  My name is Akash Tiwari and I'm 18 years  old. Okay. So, my first question, can you tell me which social media platforms you use most often? Primarily, I use Instagram, Discord. ah Not a lot. I only use Instagram and Discord.

00:31
How frequently do you rely on social media for news  or important information? Quite frequently because that's pretty much all I use.  Have you ever seen information online that you later realized was false? Yes, quite frequently. Nowadays it's really common to be honest. What was it about? Any one example? It can be about Prime Minister saying like...

01:00
Most recently I heard that Nathan Yau passed away but obviously that was fake.  That was a hoax.  A lot of people were spreading about that. Okay. What made you believe or that information initially?  you said you believed it.  you realized it was The only reason I believed it is because people online they were like showing up they were making videos of like breaking down his videos being AI.

01:28
And like there's no reason a prime minister should have been like faking his videos. But now there's like a lot of  news outlets confirming that he's not dead. So it's very obvious that he's not dead. But people online, they were like making videos of him having six fingers or him having four fingers or like him having blurry things in his background or things that's not making sense in his videos. So that's the reason I believed him. Yeah. How did you  like

01:55
Okay, so you found out it was incorrect. I was going to ask how did you eventually find out it was incorrect? Okay, that's it. Did that misinformation affect your opinion or any decision you made  like after like like any decision like you made after seeing any post online? Meaning?  Like, so like opinion in the sense like like before that you use you must be like believing all the you know online post okay, yeah, that must be correct. But after that incident, do you think he

02:24
What, what,  what, like in the sense, did it change your opinion about the news online? I mean, yes, definitely. did not,  like, obviously after that, I started double checking everything before like believing it because it didn't affect my decision making right. But it definitely did affect my opinion on things and to not trust everything off the bat. Like if you read something, you have to always double check it.

02:54
But because obviously, your opinion can affect your decision making as well.  So it's very important you get your facts right before you believe anything. So I think in the modern day and age, it's very easy to  come  across fake news. But  if you take your precautions, if you research enough, if you just don't believe everything,  it's easy to overcome it. So I was asking about how you got a false

03:23
and you believed it but there has been any news that you shared and it turned out to be false I mean I would say the same thing because I told a lot of my friends that Netanyahu died I'm so happy about it happened what happened so yeah nothing nothing so do you feel social media shows you certain type of content for often why do you think that happens if it does I feel like if you say

03:49
If you're asking me that why does social media circulate fake news more often, I'd say it's because I think more things gain traction. something of that, like something that big is like circulated online, it gains more attention than something real. Because I think most of the time real news is more boring than something fake that's been generated. So it can gain more attention from people.

04:18
More of PR Fake news gains more PR than real news Specifically to you only it's like how social media works Yeah I think it's all because of attention Okay Do you think posts with more likes, shares or comments are more likely to appear in your feed that you have said which is yes? Yeah definitely  Okay So last  That There's one more question That's my last question What do you think is the biggest problem caused by misinformation online?

04:49
I feel like as I said before,  the problem that with you was not that big. You  got it to know that said there was like, you know, for real world, like there was no real problem. there was no real world effect for me. But I feel like sometimes when  say, I think it did not affect me that  like severely, but for other people.

05:15
believing fake news at other times could be like really like detrimental for them. Say,  I'd say for example, some people say that something has a shortest, say LPG shortest for example, but LPG shortest is definitely there, but it's not that bad that you should like start hoarding LPG. It will definitely be be available, but  due to the misinformation that  the LPG is near extinct.

05:42
or like near unavailable in the market. A lot of people will start wasting their money and getting LPG or like getting full tanks in their cars and spending a lot of money for no reason even if the thing is readily available. They'll start spending money in black and they'll start losing money. That's I'd say that could be the real effects, real world effects of fake news. Yeah. oh Like even we can see that like it's happening already like you know. Yeah. A lot of people have started holding LPG or like getting full tanks for no reason even if

06:13
the things are red eh like it's it's really obvious that these things are not like extinct here right now well make it 10 times more you know yeah  they make it seem 10 times worse than it already  than it really is that's it oh okay okay i mean fake news doesn't have to be always like totally fake it could be like over exaggerated as well that could be fake news as well yeah like 100 % agree you know people will start making it like 10 times worse and then

06:43
It's  like,  oh I hit my toe but  nothing happened. But it's just you tell everyone that oh I broke, I cut my feet off. It's that kind of over exaggeration we see nowadays.  I agree. Okay. Thank you for your time and I would just like to say that this information, this call recording will only be used for academic purpose and not be shared anywhere on the internet if you are like worried about it. It's Thank you. Alright. Thank you.